---
layout: post
title: Arch from scrArch
feature-img: "assets/img/posts/jekyll/jekyll_logo.png"
categories: OS
tags: [os, software, hyprland, arch]
---

How to install Arch and configure it with NeoVim and Hyprland tiling windows manager

# Installing Arch
## Prepare your key
We ll first start by downloading the iso. The download page can be found [here](https://archlinux.org/download/). We ll choose the http direct download.
```bash
curl -L -C - --progress-bar -O https://archlinux.mirrors.ovh.net/archlinux/iso/2026.02.01/archlinux-2026.02.01-x86_64.iso
curl -L -C - --progress-bar -O https://archlinux.mirrors.ovh.net/archlinux/iso/2026.02.01/b2sums.txt
b2sum -c b2sums.txt
```
Now we have to copy it to our USB key.
```bash
lsusb
lsblk
sudo dd if=archlinux-2026.02.01-x86_64.iso of=/dev/sdd bs=4M status=progress oflag=sync
```
## Configure and install
Once booted on your USB key, select the first option "Arch Linux install medium (x86_64, UEFI).  
You should have a terminal welcoming you.  
```bash
arch install
```
Let s go through each option
### Archinstall language
English
### Locales
Keyboard layout : us  
Locale language : en_US.UTF-8  
Locale encoding : UTF-8  
### Mirrors and repositories
Select your region
### Disk configuration
#### Partitioning
Use a best-effort default partition layout  
Filesystem : Btrfs  
Use Btrfs subvolumes with a default structure : Yes  
Use compression : Yes  
#### LVM
No
#### Disk Encryption
TODO
#### Btrfs snapshots
TimeShift
### Swap
Use swap on zram : Yes (ZSTD)
### Bootloader
USE GRUB
### Unified kernel images
Yes
### Hostname
YouDontNeedMyInputForThisOne
### Authentication
User account : name, pass, is a superuser
### Profile
Minimal
### Applications
Bluetooth : enabled
Audio : pipewire (Maybe Alsa is better for RodeCaster Pro 2)
### Kernels
Linux - Power-Profiles-Daemon
### Power Management
Tuned
### Network configuration
Use NetworkManager
### Additional packages
None
### Timezone
Select yours
### NTP
Enabled
## Arch config
Congratz ! It should boot. Choose carefully the UEFI entry if you are using a multiboot selector otherwise it will look for legacy grub path  
### YAY
Before starting the infinite install step, we will install the [YAY](https://github.com/Jguer/yay) package manager to take full advantage of AUR.
```bash
sudo pacman -S --needed git base-devel
git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/yay.git
cd yay
makepkg -si
```
### Git
```bash
yay -S openssh
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your email"
```
### NVIDIA
Install Nvidia drivers if you are using an Nvidia graphic card :
```bash
yay -S linux-headers nvidia-dkms
```
The DKMS version will recompile the module every time our kernel will update. Wich will improve stability.  
### Modifying Pacman
Edit /etc/pacman.conf
```bash
# Misc options
Color
ILoveCandy
# And uncomment the following 2 lines
[extra]
Include = /etc/pacman.d/mirrolist
```
### Necessary packages
This is a list of packages I use all the time, some of them are necessary in order to have hyprland and zsh to work properly, other are just preferences.  
```bash
# Fonts
yay -S ttf-font-awesome-5 ttf-firacode-nerd
# Boot and snap
yay -S grub-btrfs efibootmgr timeshift-autosnap
# Hyprland
yay -S hyprland waybar swaync hyprshot hyprlauncher
# Terminal
yay -S zsh kitty tmux neovim fzf bat lsd ripgrep
# File management
yay -S ntfs-3g polkit polkit-gnome nautilus
# Sound
yay -S helvum pavucontrol
# Gaming
yay -S steam heroic-games-launcher
# Video
yay -S ffmpeg opencv vlc vlc-plugins-all kdenlive obs-studio
# Software
yay -S blender godot brave-bin firefox
```
Reboot, log in, type 
```bash
start-hyprland
# super + m to exit
```
and you should be greeted by a working hyprland ! Yeahhh
### Hyprland config
Ok, it works. But barely. We ll now import our various configuration files. I am using git to keep them tidy and sync between devices. But I am wondering if adding an Ansible layer to manage them would be worth the overhead.
