---
layout: post
title: Creality Ender 3
feature-img: "assets/img/posts/jekyll/jekyll_logo.png"
categories: hardware
tags: [diy, 3d, print, hardware]
---

How to compile, configure and calibrate your Creality Ender 3, using the BTT SKR Mini E3 v1.2

# Building the firmware
If, just like me, you haven't touched your 3d printer in a while, chances are you can update your firmware.
In this example, I'll be using VScode with the extensions "Auto Build Marlin" and "PlatformIO IDE".  
I followed the official instructions from (Marlin)[https://marlinfw.org/docs/basics/install.html], more specifically for (platformIO and VScode)[https://marlinfw.org/docs/basics/install_platformio_vscode.html]
First download the (firmware files)[https://marlinfw.org/meta/download/]  
Then download the (configuration)[https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Configurations] or (here)[https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Configurations] which is the default configuration for A LOT of 3d printer. Make sure the branch matches the Marlin files you downloaded previously.  
Once you have all the files you need, exctract Marlin.  
Then extract the configuration. Find your conf, here it will be "Configurations-release-2.1.2.4\config\examples\Creality\Ender-3\BigTreeTech SKR Mini E3 1.2". We copy all the files and paste them in "Marlin-2.1.2.4\Marlin".
Now, in the configuration.h that we copied, search for "#define MOTHERBOARD", then in "Marlin/src/pins/pins.h", search for what followed MOTHERBOARD, in our case "BOARD_BTT_SKR_MINI_E3_V1_2".
Finally in "Marlin/src/pins/pins.h" search for "BTT_SKR_MINI_E3_V1_2". You should find something like this :
```text
#include "stm32f1/pins_BTT_SKR_MINI_E3_V1_2.h"    // STM32F1                              env:STM32F103RC_btt env:STM32F103RC_btt_USB env:STM32F103RC_btt_maple env:STM32F103RC_btt_USB_maple
```
maple are for old version and usb is used if you want to flash your firmware via USB. I'll just use "STM32F103RC_btt". You copy it and paste it in platformio.ini, as value for default_env = STM32F103RC_btt.

Now you should be good to go. In the bottom left, in the status bar, clic on build and... hope for the best !

If the build is successful, you will end up with "Marlin-2.1.2.4\.pio\build\STM32F103RC_btt\firmware.bin", all you have to do is copy it at the root of your printer SD card and boot up !

